doc: best practices: pod security standards : improvements (#5892)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: website/content/en/docs/best-practices/pod-security-standards.md

how to achieve the goal by configuring the Pod/Containers that will be installed by OLM.
---

## Overview

The [PodSecurityPolicy][pod-security] API is deprecated and will be removed from Kubernetes in version 1.25. 
This API is replaced by a new built-in admission controller ([KEP-2579: Pod Security Admission Control][2579-psp-replacement]) which allows cluster admins to [enforce 
 Pod Security Standards Labels][enforce-standards-namespace-labels].

#### What does that mean?

Namespace and Pod/Container can be defined with three different policies which are; **Privileged, Baseline and Restricted.** 
([More info](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/)). Therefore, Pod(s)/Container(s) that 
are **not** configured according to the enforced security standards defined globally or
on the namespace level will **not** be admitted. In this way, it will **not** be possible to run them.

**As a best practice, you must ensure that workloads (Operators and Operands) are defined to run under 
restricted permissions unless they need further privileges. For the cases where Pod/Container(s) requires 

> escalating permissions, the recommendation is to use the label as described bellow**

Reviewer: Typo:
```suggestion
escalating permissions, the recommendation is to use the label as described below**
```

---

## Overview

The [PodSecurityPolicy][pod-security] API is deprecated and will be removed from Kubernetes in version 1.25. 
This API is replaced by a new built-in admission controller ([KEP-2579: Pod Security Admission Control][2579-psp-replacement]) which allows cluster admins to [enforce 
 Pod Security Standards Labels][enforce-standards-namespace-labels].

#### What does that mean?

Namespace and Pod/Container can be defined with three different policies which are; **Privileged, Baseline and Restricted.** 
([More info](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/)). Therefore, Pod(s)/Container(s) that 
are **not** configured according to the enforced security standards defined globally or
on the namespace level will **not** be admitted and it will **not** be possible to run them.

**As a best practice, you must ensure that workloads (Operators and Operands) are defined to run under 
restricted permissions unless they need further privileges. For the cases where Pod/Container(s) requires 
escalating permissions, the recommendation is to use the label as described below**

> #### How should I configure my Operators and Operands to comply with the criteria?

Author: ```suggestion
### How should I configure my Operators and Operands to comply with the criteria?
```

}
```

> **For Ansible and Helm based language Operators:** Ansible playbooks or Helm charts MUST create manifests that comply 

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
**For Ansible and Helm language based Operators:** Ansible playbooks or Helm charts MUST create manifests that comply 
```

    pod-security.kubernetes.io/warn: privileged
```

> #### How the Operator bundle (CSV) must be configured to apply the standards to the Pod/Containers which are installed by OLM (Operator itself)?

Author: ```suggestion
### How the Operator bundle (CSV) must be configured to apply the standards to the Pod/Containers which are installed by OLM (Operator itself)?
```

under the [testdata/go/v3/memcached-operator/bundle/manifests/memcached-operator.clusterserviceversion.yaml](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/master/testdata/go/v3/memcached-operator/bundle/manifests/memcached-operator.clusterserviceversion.yaml)

**Attention** If you need to use the labels to define the Pod/Container(s) installed by OLM (Operator itself) via the CSV are Privileged 
then, that means set the labels under the `spec.install.spec.deployments`. (_not in the CSV labels on top of the file_)

#### How can I verify my manifest? How do I check what policy is configured?

To verify the policy of your Pod/Container(s) you might to use a [Kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/)
cluster as described in the [K8s documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/security/cluster-level-pss/).

**However, an easy way might be using the tool:** [psachecker](https://github.com/stlaz/psachecker). This tool is only 
able to be used to check locally the `Deployments/Pods` manifests and not the CSV. To check your CSV you can follow these steps:

> - 1) Create a new `test.yaml` file

Author: ```suggestion
- Create a new `test.yaml` file
```

- 2) Add Deployment schema to the file:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: test-csv-deployment-strategy
spec:
...
```

- 3) Now, add the CSV deployment to this test (`spec.install.spec.deployments`) 

> - 4) Then, you can run the tool and check if its result will be `restricted` as expected, i.e.,

Author: ```suggestion
- Then, you can run the tool and check if its result will be `restricted` as expected (i.e.):
```

    pod-security.kubernetes.io/warn: privileged
```

#### How the Operator bundle (CSV) must be configured to apply the standards to the Pod/Containers which are installed by OLM (Operator itself)?

For Operators integrated with OLM, they have an Operator bundle with an CSV where the `spec.install.spec.deployments` has a Deployment 
which defines the Pod/Container(s) those will be installed by OLM to get your Operator itself running on the cluster. 
Therefore, you will need to check and apply the configurations on it.

> **Please, ensure the configuration is carried to the Pod/Containers on the bundle CSV after run make bundle**

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
**Note: Ensure the configuration is carried to the Pod/Containers on the bundle CSV after running make bundle**
```

> Note that Operator bundle generated with the target is building from looking on 
> the manifest under the `config` directory. 

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
Note that the Operator bundle generated with the target is built from
the manifests under the `config` directory. 
```

> To check an example of CSV which complies with the [restricted][restricted] policy, see the Golang sample

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
To check an example of a CSV which complies with the [restricted][restricted] policy, see the Golang sample
```

under the [testdata/go/v3/memcached-operator/bundle/manifests/memcached-operator.clusterserviceversion.yaml](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/master/testdata/go/v3/memcached-operator/bundle/manifests/memcached-operator.clusterserviceversion.yaml)

**Attention** If you need to use the labels to define the Pod/Container(s) installed by OLM (Operator itself) via the CSV are Privileged 
then, that means set the labels under the `spec.install.spec.deployments`. (_not in the CSV labels on top of the file_)

> #### How can I verify my manifest? How to check what are the policy configured on them?

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
#### How can I verify my manifest? How do I check what policy is configured?
```

To verify the policy of your Pod/Container(s) you might to use a [Kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/)
cluster as described in the [K8s documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/security/cluster-level-pss/).

**However, an easy way might be using the tool:** [psachecker](https://github.com/stlaz/psachecker). This tool is only 

> able to be used to check locally the `Deployments/Pods` manifests and not the CSV. Thus, to check out your CSV you can follow the steps:

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
able to be used to check locally the `Deployments/Pods` manifests and not the CSV. To check your CSV you can follow these steps:
```

- 1) Create a new `test.yaml` file

> - 2) Add to the file the Deployment schema:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- 2) Add Deployment schema to the file:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:

>   name: test-csv-deployment-strattegy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  name: test-csv-deployment-strategy
```

spec:
...
```

> - 3) Now, add to this test the CSV deployment (`spec.install.spec.deployments`) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- 3) Now, add the CSV deployment to this test (`spec.install.spec.deployments`) 
```
